Welcome back.
So we're going to go through this
challenge and we're gonna build a data
store that has a strong opinion
about how a method should be named.
And we will see how we can sort of
establish that convention with types.
And get great feedback in
our editor as this evolves,
as we do things like what we
see on the screen right now,
adding new types of media that
this data store aims to manage.
So, first, I gotta go to my editor here.
All right, so
first thing we need to do is we
have a contract that we
wish to enforce here.
And the way that's typically
done with a class like
this is through the use of an interface.
I can actually get rid of that.
So let's say,
implements DataStoreMethods, right?
So this interface is gonna do the job
of having all of those methods on it.
This is what's gonna give me this type
checking that makes sure I have the right
things here.
So now, our challenges, we need this
thing here to sort of be dynamic.
One way we could do this,
we could be like, so
this interface is the way we're gonna
establish this contract, right?
This set of things that
datastore must have.
So one way we could do that is explicitly
enumerating all of the different methods.
But this doesn't seem to meet
this requirement that we have
around making this one simple change here.
And then automatically seeing some
feedbacks that says, hey, we should have
clearComics, getAllComics, sort of that
says getComics or something like that.
We should have this methods for comics.
So we can't do that, but what we can do is
attempt to programmatically build them up.
And I'm going to need a mapped
type in order to make that work
because once I do that,
I sort of have my for loop.
And one way we can do this is,
we can say I have a type,
and I can say we have a key,
and that key is
the property names of data entity map.
Does anyone have a suggestion
as how I could do that?
How do I get the properties on
an interface in a string literal type?
>> Object.keys.
>> Object.keys,
there's a type equivalent to that,
keyof DataEntityMap.
So if I just did this,
let's just take a look
at what it gives us.
So, ds = new DataStore,
just giving us something to look at here.
ds dot, we're not gonna have
it until we implement these.
But you could say, hey,
we're missing the following properties
from DataStore methods, movie and song.
We should have properties called movie and
song and we don't have them.
So this is the kind of
feedback we're looking for,
but it's not exactly these
words that were interested in.
Then this is where a template
literal type could be useful.
So what we can do here is use
this key remapping feature.
So it's not these specific
words here that we want, but
it's something that's
derived from those words.
So we could say as and
then backtick getAll,
and then here's our dynamic piece K.
And let's see what we get now, hey,
look at that ,getAllmovie, getAllsong.
The case is wrong, we needed sort of
an S at the end to make it plural,
but we can see that that the last
slide of this error message suggests
that our key remapping is happening
the way we would want it to happen.
So let's add that s to make it plural and
let's capitalize this
with those nice little
helper utilities that
allow us to transform K.
So look at that, we've got getAllmovies,
getAllsongs, great.
Now these are not properties,
these should be methods, right?
So this is a case where the value,
the type of the value
in our map type should be
some sort of function.
And in this case, when we're
getting the entire list of things,
I think it's probably a zero
argument function that
returns something,
it returns an array of some things.
Now what that array is, it should probably
depend on what you're asking for, right?
This is if you say getAllmovies,
you should get an array of movies.
If you say getAllsongs,
you should get an array of songs.
And so how might we do that?
I'll take an answer also if you wanna
think of this in terms of values instead
of types.
Do we have enough information here
is I guess the first question
remembering that this is like a loop.
Or this is first,
it's movie and then it's song.
>> Indexed access types.
>> Index access types, and that's sort
of like square bracket notation for
going through an interface, given a key,
get the value type stored under that key.
And so in this case, we've got K, and
so that's not quite what we want.
I mean, if we look, well, there's not
an easy place to see it right now.
Actually, we could do it this way,
ds DataStoreMethods.
Just to fake it.
So we have something a nice
autocomplete thing to look at.
So, okay, what we get here is an array
of literally the string movie.
That's not what we want.
We want movies.
So what we're gonna do
is say DataEntityMap.
And then pass in the key and
then we can get that back.
So we're gonna pass in movie,
we're gonna get the interface movie.
And then we want an array of those things.
And where does that leave us?
getAllMovies, getAllSongs.
So this brings a lot of different
things together as one.
We have a mapped type.
We have key remapping which makes
use of this template literal type.
And then we have an index access type
which lets us use this interface
here as the source of truth.
And it makes it so
that we're not writing every single
getAllMovies, getAllSongs, getAllComics.
We're establishing a convention that
is based on this thing up here.
And to prove that this works
let's have this comic thing.
So I believe I had issue
number which is a number.
And we'll add comic down here.
And we should see, hey, getAllComics.
We're being told, look, there's this
convention, I see in your DataEntityMap.
You've got this concept of a comic and
your interface here Or this type.
It tells me that I should
have a method here that when
called returns an array of comics.
So here we go.
There it is, comics, movies, songs.
So this is really at the core of
what this exercise is all about.
Now, how do we make this work for
the other methods?
Just smash them together.
So here we would say,
get song and this will return
one thing instead of an array
of songs it will return,
just a song and
we'll take in an id as well.
Where does that leave us?
Get comic takes in an id,
returns a comic, get all comics.
See how that's all nice there.
Now we're going to have to implement this.
But this is sort of the most
interesting part of this challenge.
Let me add a new line here.
Just so we're not having to read,
scrolling things from left to right.
So in both cases its sort
of a loop over these keys,
a remapping which is where we
establish a method name, and
then this is just simply
the type of the method.
And the way we can in the abstract refer
to the kind of thing we're returning
be it an array of them or a single one,
it's using this index x access type,
passing k into that data entity map.
So I'm going to add two more.
I think one more, clear.
Clear and then plural again.
This is going to be,
I believe a void function.
The test suite will tell us.
And just, to take the pressure
off absorbing all of this.
This is three uses of
largely the same pattern.
Really the only thing that's
changing is the type of the value
that the method returns and
this template literal type, that's it.
We're not even changing the way
this is capitalized here, so
it's sort of three loops.
And you may know of interfaces
as being this thing when you're
using a class and
you're saying this implements a type.
You may think, this type,
it's like, should be an interface.
Well, it doesn't have to be this
has to just be something that
is possible for a class to implement.
So, if we said it could be no,
now we'll be like,
we'll be told hey, if you can't do that,
there's no way for
class to end up being now.
So as long as it plays by the rules
that a class must play by,
you can use a type alias like this.
And we need to, in fact, in this case,
because you can only have one
index signature like this
in any given interface or
any given type like this.
And that's why we have to sort of end them
together to create one cohesive thing.
So how might we make this work in reality?
I think we have all the methods we
need now, we've got the clears,
we've got the movies and songs, we've
get comic I think that's all I'm seeing
just based on the limitations
of this list.
I'm also going to remove this so
that we pass the test suite.
But that was a good sanity check for us.
I'm just going to comment that out for
now.
And let's go ahead and implement this.
So the first thing we need
is a place to store data.
And anytime that I see
some pattern like this,
right where we're retrieving something by
id, I kind of want to store it in a way
where that access this is
going to be really fast.
So, I can say we're going to have,
an object called data and
I'm going to make it a real
private class field so
that no one from the outside can get at
this except through the methods I provide.
And this is going to be
of a particular type.
So we could say, key, In
key of data entity map,
and then the value is
going to be a dictionary
that holds data entity map.
So, we could do that another way.
Record, can anyone tell me
what a record type does?
Like what this little helper does?
So if I were to do like string,
data entity map of type k.
Let me make this more simple.
So, what record does, it effectively
it's a shortcut to a dictionary.
Now that we get that nice
unchecked indexed access thing,
where there's the possibility
of something being undefined.
I don't need to define my
own dict type anymore.
I can just use record.
So it's just saying they'll give me
an object with key of string and
value types of string array.
So effectively what we're doing
down here is we're saying loop
through all of the keys in data entity
map that's these here movie and
song and then so let's create
an object with keys, movie and song.
And each of those should
have a dictionary,
right an object where you
can have any key you want.
And the value type is going to be
the interface movie, the interface song.
And we'll start at empty,
We're being yelled
at because,
We can't start out totally empty.
You got to start out this kind of empty,
And a comma would help.
So if I wanted to make this
more complicated which I don't,
you could call this movies,
songs you just do more Q rap remapping
here but no need to overdo it right,
especially while we're just trying
to wrap our heads around this thing.
So now, time for
me to implement all of these methods.
And unfortunately because it's
a little bit abstract here,
vs code is not going to help us and just
say, implement all of these things for me.
It would do that, if it were a simpler
interface, but it may be having trouble
figuring out exactly what we're
supposed to be doing here.
Thankfully, it's a pretty
repetitive pattern.
So, we'll just do this manually.
Get all songs return to song.
Sorry an array of songs.
Get song,
we'll just do them like this one triplet.
And then clearSongs, this returns nothing.
Great so that's for song and
then I'm going to implement these and
then I'm just gonna copy and
then replace it with movie.
So here, we're gonna need something
like to return the list of songs.
So we'll get all the keys for the song,
Object.keys(this.#data.song) and
map over those and
get the corresponding values.
And we're being yelled at because
there's the possibility of something
being undefined here.
So why is that?
It's because of our
unchecked indexed access.
So this here, effectively what
we're saying is, this whole thing,
if I were to remove this explicit type
annotation, getAllSongs returned to this.
It's not the mapping over the keys
that's the problem, it's the fact that
I'm using this index access here without
making sure that everything's present.
So I'm gonna use my all time
favorite type card here,
isDefined, which is generic over type T.
I'm gonna explain what
this does in a moment.
All right, so in terms of the code
that actually runs at runtime,
very simple, is the type of x undefined,
or is it not, right?
Anything other than undefined
will cause this to return true.
It'll only return false
if it is undefined.
But that's the least interesting
part of what's going on here.
This here is the interesting part.
So we're saying this is a type guard,
right?
We know because of the return type,
it's not simply saying I return a Boolean.
It's saying I return a Boolean
with a specific meaning,
a Boolean that should tell
the type system something special.
In this case, it means if I return true,
that means x is of type T.
If I return false,
that means x is not of type T.
That's what a user defined
type guard does for us.
And the fact that I've got T or
undefined here, that means that when
we have something here, like in this case,
song or undefined, right?
And we pass that into this function,
T is gonna be matched with song, right?
That undefined piece sort of breaks out.
It's not part of the T.
It's part of what the argument accepts,
but it's not part of T.
And that let's me, say,
strip away this undefined piece.
Now, I could just do filter,
isDefined, and we should be good now.
We return an array of songs.
So in summary, get all the keys
in this little map of songs,
and then iterate over those keys and
retrieve the respective song.
And then filter out anything
that might have been missing.
Another way of doing this, which I would
consider to be perfectly valid here,
this is a rare case where I
would say you could do that,
which is the non-null assertion operator.
Usually, I would advise against this, but
we are iterating over all
the keys in this data structure.
It's short of deliberately storing a null,
or
an undefined in your map under a key.
I wouldn't expect this to
cause any trouble for you.
Normally, you don't wanna do this,
because TypeScript's saying hey,
there might not be anything in
there under this particular key.
But where's the key coming from, this.
I can rely on that working pretty well.
It's not arbitrary strings here,
it's giving me the strings that supposedly
have something stored under them.
So either way would work.
In fact, I can strip this out,
and we can see same return type.
Does that makes sense to everyone why
this is generally not a good idea, but
here specifically, it seems okay?
Yep, okay, so now getSong,
this should be easy.
But we will need an undefined check here,
because the ID now,
that's a user generated value.
They could pass me whatever, right?
I wouldn't wanna just sort
of press right through that.
But similar, right?
And this will take an ID, Or
a songKey, whatever we wanna call it.
And let's say we just throw
if someone gave me a bad key.
Something like that, and great.
So go grab it, attempt to find it.
If it's garbage in, garbage out, we throw.
clearSongs, it's pretty easy.
That's it.
All right, so we took care of songs,
let's do movies.
I'm gonna be kinda lazy here.
Let's copy this,
just do a little copy paste,
and, Gonna find all
occurrences of song and call.
Just make that movie, and
then I'll #data.Movie.
Let's fix that little case.
And fix these, MovieKey.
Just make that lowercase m.
And wow, that worked.
Just some renaming,
it's why I only gave you two,
just cuz it starts to
get a bit repetitive.
And let me run the test suite real quick.
Still failing a test, why?
AddSong is not a function.
Looks like I need an add.
Okay, no problem,
we can add that in real quick.
It's just gonna be one more
pattern of this map type here.
So we'll say add, and
then the entity name.
And this we'll take in as an argument,
a DataEntityMap key.
And I believe that we just return
exactly what we just added.
So let me get rid of the file tree here,
so we can see real clearly what We
have just added, so there we go.
One more map type iterating over the same
keys, add and then capital S for
song or capital M for movie.
And then this is just
the type of the method.
So we take in a new thing to be added,
we return what was just added.
And if we go down to the data store here,
we can see, hey, we're missing.
Add Song and add movie.
So already we can see, hey, we updated
our pattern, we added something new.
We're being told right at the location
where that change needs to happen.
Go ahead.
So let's say add movie.
And we'll just say,
We'll just say this data movie,
and that ID = m and then return m.
And we can do add Song very similarly.
We'll change this to S for
so There you go.
So we're just pushing this
thing into the array.
Let's run our test real quick.
All right, still failing.
What's going on here?
At song is not a function.
Turn up saving the file and help,
There we go, all tests pass.
So in summary,
what we have here is a convention
that we can establish across
multiple data types and
we programmatically build up.
Think of it like an interface literally,
it's a type alias but
we're implementing it with a class.
And let's give this last requirement
a test what happens when
we add comic back to this data
entity map well this lights up and
it says look you need like
you need get all comics.
And then if you add this method,
it would say, you need clear all comics.
And even here, it's saying, hey, shouldn't
you create a little dictionary of comics,
where are we going to store this?
So you could define this
in a very hard coded way.
But what you can see here,
this is the way a lot of libraries that
manage the data layer like handle things.
They want you to sort of describe
what your entities look like,
and then have something
that is more abstract,
building up something that will
they'll directly interact with.
To make things even a little more
interesting remember that if we did
something like this,
Open interfaces give us
another opportunity here, so I could have
defined it this way in the first place.
But let's imagine.
We had like.
I have to export both.
For export one, I have to export both.
So interfaces are open meaning you could
have multiple files that are sort of just
adding some stuff to this interface and
it gets all squashed together.
So let's say that you
have your movie interface
in one file like this
stuff in one file and
then maybe these to song and
comic in another file.
You can kinda have all of this co-located
in different parts of your project and
it's all gonna sort of pile into
the single interface which then the rest
of the stuff refers to.
So you'd get the right separation of
concerns in terms of how your project is
organized.
And then TypeScript is causing errors to
light up right where you need to make
changes as you refactor, right?
As you rename things,
as you add a new type of data entity.
So there we go.
That's our data layer.
And before checking this in, just comment
this out, so that we're passing in.
But hopefully this helps you understand
template literal types, map types,
index access types and
how you can use them, too.
Define a more abstract convention than
simply saying method name should be this,
method name should be this.
You can do something
more powerful than that.